Extend documentation wrt mixing with other threading packages (#1702)
uxlfoundation/oneTBB: doc/main/tbb_userguide/appendix_B.rst

===============================================

Correct Interoperability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> |full_name| can be mixed with other threading packages. No special

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use |short_name| with other threading packages. No additional 
```

> effort is required to use any part of |short_name| with other threading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
effort is required.
```

> packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Here is an example that parallelizes an outer loop with OpenMP and an
inner loop with |short_name|.

.. literalinclude:: ./examples/tbb_mixing_other_runtimes_example.cpp
   :language: c++
   :start-after: /*begin outer loop openmp with nested tbb*/
   :end-before: /*end outer loop openmp with nested tbb*/

> The ``#pragma omp parallel`` causes the OpenMP to create a team of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``#pragma omp parallel`` instructs OpenMP to create a team of
```

threads, and each thread executes the block statement associated with

> the pragma. The ``#pragma omp for`` indicates that the compiler should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the directive. 
The ``#pragma omp for`` indicates that the compiler should
```

> use the previously created thread team to execute the loop in parallel.

Reviewer: maybe extend a little bit? smth like:
the compiler to distribute the iterations of the following loop among the threads in the existing thread team, enabling parallel execution of the loop body.

Author: Then it becomes
```suggestion
distribute the iterations of the following loop among the threads in the existing thread team, enabling parallel execution of the loop body.
```

> Here is the same example written using POSIX\* Threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following example with the POSIX\* Threads:
```

Author: I think the main point here is that the example is similar to the one above.
So, I would write
```suggestion
See the similar example with the POSIX\* Threads:
```

.. literalinclude:: ./examples/tbb_mixing_other_runtimes_example.cpp
   :language: c++
   :start-after: /*begin pthreads with tbb*/
   :end-before: /*end pthreads with tbb*/

.. _avoid_cpu_overutilization:

Avoid CPU Overutilization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Although |short_name| can be mixed with other threading packages without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While you can safely use |short_name| with other threading packages without
```

> affecting the execution correctness, simultaneous running of large

Reviewer: ```suggestion
affecting the execution correctness, running a large
```

number of threads from multiple thread pools may end up oversubscribing

> and overutilizing system resources, significantly affecting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This may significantly overutilize system resources, affecting the
```

execution performance.

> Consider the example with nested parallelism from above but now with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the previous example with nested parallelism, but with an
```

> OpenMP parallel region executed from |short_name| parallel loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenMP parallel region executed within |short_name| parallel loop:
```

.. literalinclude:: ./examples/tbb_mixing_other_runtimes_example.cpp
   :language: c++
   :start-after: /*begin outer loop tbb with nested omp*/
   :end-before: /*end outer loop tbb with nested omp*/

> Due to semantics of OpenMP parallel region, such composition of parallel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the semantics of OpenMP parallel region, this composition of parallel
```

> runtimes will instantiate quadratic number of simultaneously running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtimes may result in a quadratic number of simultaneously running
```

> threads, which will lead to performance drops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
threads. Such oversubscription can degrade the performance.
```

> |full_name| is able to negotiate on the usage of CPU resources,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|full_name| solves this issue with Thread Composability Manager (TCM). It is an experimental CPU resource coordination layer that enables better cooperation between different threading runtimes.
```

cooperating with other threading runtimes through the Thread
Composability Manager, a CPU resource coordination layer.

> Thread Composability Manager is an experimental feature in oneAPI, hence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, TCM is disabled. To enable it:
```

> it is disabled by default. To enable it, set ``TCM_ENABLE`` environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the ``TCM_ENABLE`` environment variable to ``1``.
```

> variable to ``1``. To make sure it works as intended set ``TCM_VERSION``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set the ``TCM_VERSION``  variable to ``1`` to ensure compatibility.
```

environment variable to ``1`` before running your application and search

> for the output starting from ``TCM:`` lines, as in the example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example output:
```

::

    TCM: VERSION            1.3.0
    <...>
    TCM: TCM_ENABLE         1

> , where the ``TCM: TCM_ENABLE         1`` line indicates that Thread

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``TCM: TCM_ENABLE 1`` line confirms that Thread
```

> Composability Manager is enabled and works. When used with the OpenMP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composability Manager is active.

When used with the OpenMP
```

> implementation of Intel(R) DPC++/C++ Compiler, Thread Composability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implementation of Intel(R) DPC++/C++ Compiler, TCM
```

> Manager prevents creation of excessive threads in the scenarios similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 prevents thread oversubscription by managing how threads are spawned across runtimes, like in the nested example above.
```

Author: ```suggestion
allows runtimes to avoid simultaneous scheduling excessive threads in the scenarios similar
```

to the above.

> You may use |short_name| communication channels (`GitHub issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can submit feedback or ask questions about Thread Composability Manager through oneTBB `GitHub Issues
```

Author: ```suggestion
You can submit feedback or ask questions about Thread Composability Manager through |short_name| `GitHub Issues
```

> <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneTBB/issues>`_, `discussions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneTBB/issues>`_ or `Discussions
```

> <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneTBB/discussions>`_, etc.) to also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneTBB/discussions>`_.
```

> ask questions and provide feedback on Thread Composability Manager.

Author: ```suggestion
```

.. note::

>    The use of Thread Composability Manager to negotiate utilization of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The Thread Composability Manager
```

>    CPU resources requires support in threading packages. For most

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  support from all used threading packages. For optimal
```

>    efficient coordination, it should be supported by all thread pools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   coordination, make sure that each thread pool in your application integrates with TCM.
```

>    used within the application. Consult the documentation of other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   used within the application. 
```

>    threading packages to see if such support exists there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

===============================================

Correct Interoperability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use |short_name| with other threading packages. No additional
effort is required.

Here is an example that parallelizes an outer loop with OpenMP and an
inner loop with |short_name|.

.. literalinclude:: ./examples/tbb_mixing_other_runtimes_example.cpp
   :language: c++
   :start-after: /*begin outer loop openmp with nested tbb*/
   :end-before: /*end outer loop openmp with nested tbb*/

> The ``#pragma omp parallel`` instructs OpenMP to create a team of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``#pragma omp parallel`` instructs OpenMP to create a team of
```

threads. Each thread executes the code block statement associated with
the directive.

> The ``#pragma omp for`` indicates that the compiler should distribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``#pragma omp for`` indicates that the compiler should distribute
```

the iterations of the following loop among the threads in the existing
thread team, enabling parallel execution of the loop body.

See the similar example with the POSIX\* Threads:

.. literalinclude:: ./examples/tbb_mixing_other_runtimes_example.cpp
   :language: c++
   :start-after: /*begin pthreads with tbb*/
   :end-before: /*end pthreads with tbb*/

.. _avoid_cpu_overutilization:

Avoid CPU Overutilization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While you can safely use |short_name| with other threading packages
without affecting the execution correctness, running a large number of
threads from multiple thread pools concurrently can lead to
oversubscription. This may significantly overutilize system resources,
affecting the execution performance.

Consider the previous example with nested parallelism, but with an

> OpenMP parallel region executed within |short_name| parallel loop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenMP parallel region executed within the parallel loop:
```

.. literalinclude:: ./examples/tbb_mixing_other_runtimes_example.cpp
   :language: c++
   :start-after: /*begin outer loop tbb with nested omp*/
   :end-before: /*end outer loop tbb with nested omp*/

> Due to the semantics of OpenMP parallel region, this composition of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the semantics of the OpenMP parallel region, this composition of
```

parallel runtimes may result in a quadratic number of simultaneously
running threads. Such oversubscription can degrade the performance.

> |full_name| solves this issue with Thread Composability Manager (TCM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|short_name| solves this issue with Thread Composability Manager (TCM).
```

It is an experimental CPU resource coordination layer that enables
better cooperation between different threading runtimes.

By default, TCM is disabled. To enable it, set ``TCM_ENABLE``
environment variable to ``1``. To make sure it works as intended set
``TCM_VERSION`` environment variable to ``1`` before running your
application and check the output for lines starting with ``TCM:``. The
``TCM: TCM_ENABLE 1`` line confirms that Thread Composability Manager is
active.

Example output:

::

    TCM: VERSION            1.3.0
    <...>
    TCM: TCM_ENABLE         1

When used with the OpenMP implementation of Intel(R) DPC++/C++ Compiler,
TCM allows to avoid simultaneous scheduling of excessive threads in the

> scenarios similar to the above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scenarios similar to the one above.
```

> You can submit feedback or ask questions about Thread Composability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit feedback or ask questions about Thread Composability
```

       // Wait for outer loop threads to finish
       for( int i=0; i<M; ++i )
           pthread_join( &id[i], NULL );
   }

Avoid CPU Overutilization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Although |short_name| can be mixed with other threading packages without
affecting the execution correctness, simultaneous running of large
number of threads from multiple thread pools may end up oversubscribing
and overutilizing system resources, significantly affecting the
execution performance.

Consider the example with nested parallelism from above but now with the
OpenMP parallel region executed from |short_name| parallel loop.

.. code:: cpp

    int M, N;

    struct InnerBody {
        ...
    };

    void OpenMP_NestedInTBB() {
        parallel_for( 0, M, [&](int) {
            #pragma omp parallel for
            for( int j=0; j<N; ++j ) {

>                 InnerBody(j);

Author: Improved.

            }
        });
    }

Due to semantics of OpenMP parallel region, such composition of parallel
runtimes will instantiate quadratic number of simultaneously running
threads, which will lead to performance drops.

|full_name| is able to negotiate on the usage of CPU resources,
cooperating with other threading runtimes through the Thread
Composability Manager, a CPU resource coordination layer.

Thread Composability Manager is an experimental feature in oneAPI, hence
it is disabled by default. To enable it, set ``TCM_ENABLE`` environment
variable to ``1``. To make sure it works as intended set ``TCM_VERSION``
environment variable to ``1`` before running your application and search
for the output of the form:

::

    TCM: VERSION            1.3.0
    TCM: INTERFACE VERSION  1030
    TCM: HWLOC API VERSION  2.11.0
    TCM: HWLOC LIBRARY PATH /lib64/libhwloc.so.15
    TCM: BUILD TIME         2025-01-08 10:05:00 UTC
    TCM: COMMIT ID          cd1987ab
    TCM: TCM_DEBUG          undefined
    TCM: TCM_ENABLE         1

, where the ``TCM: TCM_ENABLE         1`` line indicates that Thread
Composability Manager is enabled and works.

> 

Author: Thanks. That solves my problem about where to put this messaging regarding Intel(R) OpenMP. I was unable to find good place and messaging for that. This place seems to be a proper one.

To provide feedback on this feature create an issue in the `Issues
section of the oneTBB GitHub repository

> <https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneTBB/issues>`_

Author: Thanks! Good suggestion! Rephrased.

.. note::
   Negotiating utilization of CPU resources requires support in
   threading packages. To make coordination most efficient, the support
   is required in all threading packages used within the application.
   Consult documentation of other threading packages to see if such

>    resource coordination capability exists in them.

Author: Applied.
